so the apartment is enormous and it's
gorgeous and I could have done it before
and after but I don't really think the
camera could pick up the nature of the
of the change you know when I first
arrived here it was filthy and ugly and
boy what a difference you know a new
coat of paint makes a little bit of
renovation a little bit of effort you
know and I was left wondering who were
these other English teachers here
because this apartment has been used
exclusively for foreign English teachers
like myself people who come here to be
the English professor from another
country plus 20 years I'm sure very
often they had two or three different
people doing the job in the same year
people often you know quit unexpectedly
that kind of post and nobody made an
effort before I did to just you know
make the place decent and I do mean I do
mean decent Oh without that one wait
wait I didn't buy that came with the
apartment so I got just one eight-pound
way I don't know what I'll do with it
but all the rest of the weights some of
you guys watch me assemble this on
lodged you have feared exactly how I'm
gonna set that up you can see I got some
floor mats I got the bench press
currently the bench press is a little
bit too close to that glass table for
comfort and by the way you can see I am
NOT a minimalist this is an anti
minimalist video because you see that on
two wrenches - not just one - if I were
minimal is that consistent only one
owning one wrench I'll talk a little bit
more of other renovations look so this
apartment has known closet so in effect
when you come in the door this is like
an inside-out closet right there you
know I don't know why more people don't
do this as a big beautiful chair right
by the entrance because the first thing
you do when you arrive where you leave
is you know mess with your shoes so you
actually got a place you can sit down
mess with your shoes you got you
full-length mirror that's my look for
the day I actually appeared in a TV
commercial today the University wanted
to film me
so got the formal formal wear on but you
know anyway I don't know again people
just don't take the time to make their
own lives you know a little bit more
liveable and for me you know I got no
hair I don't wear makeup so having a
mirror like that is crucial because I
look at a mirror so rarely I've got to
be able to just glance myself over
before I leave to go to work whatever it
is and in effect this whole area is like
an inside-out closet my my few jackets
my so-called winter coat I guess is
there and this is a tropical climate so
soon enough those things will be out of
out of commission anyway or you know you
wear a jacket here just in a symbolic
sense so by the way this is one of the
few vegan foods that doe hyung has to
offer me this is a variety of bread that
has no eggs and no milk powder in it the
99.9% of bread in China has both of
those things but you know my salary here
is so low I can very easily eat two
loaves of this bread in one day so
yesterday
I think I ate two loaves of bread like
that so if I made that staple my diet I
actually really couldn't afford it
I earned 5,000 qui a month if you spend
twenty quiet day on bread it's actually
it's actually not really sustainable so
I shouldn't eat much of that bread once
I settle in here what is gonna be the
staple of my diet so get in this kitchen
I mean you know I know it doesn't look
newly rennovated you guys but this place
was just a disaster
before I moved in here this is my bread
machine fabulous bread machine I have
not used even once yet here's the GL
moon there's the the yeast so I could
get that rolling I could make the staple
of my diets ear and me
aka job steers as I did whoops didn't
realize
was open as I did when I was living in
Kunming but currently my experiment is
actually to make the sleep of my diet
what you guys know is that Sookie beans
so here at me the protein to fat ratio
is about four to one so four sorry four
grams of protein to one gram of fat
adzuki beans here I think are about 16
to one about 16 grams of protein to one
gram of fat you guys can google that if
you don't like my memory and the only
other kind of beans I can get here that
are worth talking about
I could I could mess around with these
white beans I don't know if you've got
the patience for it to be honest with
you and again I don't know if the
protein evaporation was that great good
old-fashioned soy beans - what you see
here this is soy milk the protein to fat
ratio is terrible compared to black
beans and other other forms of beans as
you can see here if you've been studying
Chinese the last six months as I have
but yeah I mean this sink they were they
were really surprised when I showed up
like first day here I was really trying
to do all these renovations but they're
not really optional like when I got here
when you turn on this sink the the tab
would fall off and there'd be a huge
geyser of water gush up and not just hit
you in the face it would spray around
the whole room it really looked like
something out of a slapstick comedy
anyway I mean the other people who
stayed here so I mean I immediately said
look this needs to be repaired and I'm
willing to pay for it and basically
because they were shamed they were
ashamed to admit what kind of a state
the the apartment was in the university
volunteered to pay instead which of
course I'm very grateful for I do
appreciate that but I didn't even make
that argument I wasn't even trying to I
wasn't trying to argue for it and with
this part was absolutely enormous I mean
I really could host a conference on
veganism here or something and you know
the stuff I've bought here the other
thing to really meditate on is that
every single thing I buy I'm only gonna
use for one year and then it's gonna go
in the garbage so I mean you know in
terms of my club these these four metal
bowls
I bought there's one more of them I'm
going to use it for one year and then it
goes in the landfill or possibly the
next person who lives here this
if you've really lived in China you
recognize this piece of equipment I just
purchased this myself it's not the money
it's knowing how fleeting the
circumstances of your own life are you
know it's knowing that you're you're
buying these things with no with no
long-term future oh yeah by the way I
literally haven't unpacked yet those two
suitcases are sitting there on the floor
for a reason
I still have unpacking to do I've been
busy with other things
anyway the apartment is enormous I could
easily I could easily host a vegan
conference here behind this door is
another bedroom that is completely
unused so now I'm going to show you that
one that's the one room we didn't
renovate or clean up I can show you I
mean if you want to know what a
difference the walls make this was
completely repainted at my insistence
and my urgent as soon as I showed up I
said well calling the paint crew because
were repainting it and now the walls
look beautiful it makes such a
difference every moment of every day
makes a difference and you know I
thought I'd have to replace the drapes
the drapes were filthy they had 20 years
of dirt on them you know but all we did
was wash the drapes and now they look
great in all every room you know wash
the drapes wash the windows so I mean
this this window was caked with 20 years
of dirt now it's clean for the first
time in 20 years and even this
windowsill on the outside there were
these basically there was garbage but
there were big boxes of crap nobody had
lifted a finger to make this place look
decent and I mean now it looks like a
brand-new apartment in terms of using
your imagination for what it looked like
when the walls were all you know filthy
and covered with holes and grind what
have you you know I'll just show you
what the hallway looks like here it's
not insult my neighbors
so anyone watching this if you really
have experience living in China you'll
know what that's about you know again
not to insult anyone but this is not a
fancy apartment building that's very
much the norm that kind of grimy filthy
wall you know apart from the fact that
there are specific markings added to it
or have you so it really transformed the
place having it cleaned having it
repainted and then having a whole series
of repairs done included as I mentioned
that the kitchen tap there so this is my
office which is again is enormous
I've ordered two more tables so I know
the furniture could be rearranged and
once I get the tables arrived and
this'll just all clear this out but I'm
gonna have a writing desk in here also I
currently have a two monitor setup
there's the the famous white microphone
but anyways it's an enormous office and
one of the reasons I chose this to be
the office room is actually that it's
the most insolent in terms of sound so
it's a room where I will be the least
annoying my neighbors if I'm recording a
video late at night or what-have-you
it's also the most insulate against
mosquitoes I'm gonna put you on game on
that if you are gonna live in the
tropics you have to really think about
the architecture of the house in terms
of mosquitoes how they get in and what
have you that is the single most
expensive piece of furniture I purchased
it's an actually decent chair actually
made out of wood and again for me both
are ecological reasons and otherwise it
will always kind of tug at me that you
know you buy something like that and you
know it's here for a good time it's not
here for a long time you've maybe got
one year of you set of a piece of
furniture like that and then it is good
good good gone like everything else in
your life that can't fit into one or two
suitcases I don't know when I go back to
Canada I might only be able to take one
of those suitcase
with me so I'll own next to nothing once
again in my life but hey I guess it's
beautiful well less beautiful I mean
this also kind of reflects the the
Chinese logic of you know trying to make
you feel welcome to make you feel
comfortable it's very flattering the old
bed was a bit shameful I don't even
think I complained about it just
commented I just commented in passing
that when I moved in I would buy a new
bed and without asking me they purchased
a new bed so this I don't know if you
can tell a sense of scale this enormous
this is a full king-size bed and it
looks bigger than I remember King says
being in enormous room that I currently
do not use at all so you can call this
the guest bedroom I purchased these
these red sheets for it so that is my my
modest investment but this is not my
bedroom currently this enormous space is
completely spare again when the tables
arrive I don't know I could I could set
up a table in here and make this a room
in which I you know read read and study
language or what have you in addition to
the office in addition to the main
sitting room I don't know I've got to
make some decisions all of these windows
if you live in the tropics so here
there's good old-fashioned sticky tape
added as a barrier at that point where
the the windows are joined you've got to
go through every room and watch for
where mosquitoes come in where they come
out and although most of Maui is
beautiful the view of this window is not
particularly beautiful and that is the
sort of space where mosquitoes will
congregate and try to get into your home
and of course the bathroom this is the
main bathroom there's another room you
can use in the bathroom the bathroom is
where mosquitoes most like to be and
when I first came here their attitude
was oh no it's fun this window had no
mesh on it no netting this is open for
mosquitoes becoming a know constantly
and I said no I'm gonna pay to have
mosquito wire attached to the window
that's not debatable if you
in the tropics he absolutely have to do
that with every single window and then
afterwards you have to tape up the gap
so you probably get see at the top there
what the woman did leave a gap and I had
to take an old-fashioned sticky tape and
complete the barrier against mosquitoes
because this is exactly where mosquitoes
will want to come in and join your life
mosquitoes are attracted to water of any
kind not just for reproduction that's
where they want to socialize where they
want to hang out and this is my fabulous
toilet or does I think it's marketing
they call it a 3d flushing toilet
because the flush action is so great
when I showed up the toilet was a
combination of broken and not working so
you know episode this kind of thing like
the other teachers are working we're not
really talking with a luxury if you're
talking with something like a toilet you
use it every day without fail like you
know if your motorcycle doesn't work
very well that's one thing if you
actually have a toilet you can't use how
do you get through your daily life this
makes no sense to me but for like 10
years or something one foreign teacher
after another accepted the job here and
just ignored the fact that there was a
broken toilet I show up and immediately
I say oh yeah great replace it I don't
care how much it costs we want a new
toilet
I also said immediately replaced the
showerhead
that's not optional like how are you
gonna live your life without a working
shower and I believe I was the first
person to stay in this apartment ever
who got the hot water working they had a
totally working hot water machine a
water heater if you like but nobody you
never you know taking the steps to
actually get it hooked up and running
how do you a people I shave my face in
my head how would I do that without a
working shower without hot water
ridiculous but you know these people
just live with their cams out here they
live like they're in a den of thieves or
something and then they leave tents
it's totally foreign to me and I gotta
say this is another thing in the tropics
you know this is common Cambodia
Thailand everything you notice this is a
good shower now so it's now I thought
was replaced at my insistence great
brand new shower works wonderfully new
hot water machine new mosquito net even
window but it means that the floor ever
like this is always gonna be wet right
so if you're gonna live with it go out
and spend the 600 qui and get a whole
bunch of maths so you can actually walk
on the floor without getting your feet
wet so that when you brush your teeth
your feet anyway and by the way here's
another great indication that I am NOT a
minimalist I believe minimalists like
Ted car and Maude vegan and those people
they boast they have only one towel do I
buy just one towel no I bought like
eight towels so come on be a mensch what
are you gonna do come on you gonna have
one towel then what happens you're one
towel falls in the floor you have a
guest come over something you know live
your life with one towel because the
minimalist ideologies come on
guys buy six towels by eight so that
that fabulous room currently that's
absolutely no function with that
enormous king-size bed the room I'm
actually sleeping in so there are really
two bedrooms here obviously if you were
really living here the room that's
that's my office this huge room could
also be a bedroom I could have my bed in
here and I could live my whole life in
here instead of having
poster here my voice is echoing even
though the ceilings are really high by
the way if you got that impression here
that's part of what makes it so
beautiful we don't have the lights on
now but when this light is on it lights
up this whole room big high ceiling
beautiful space but there are two
bedrooms identical to this and currently
this is a sort of closet for hanging and
shelving your clothes it has more than
300 parts I thought am I really gonna
wait until after I've got this assembled
to film this video and the answer is no
uh so again sorry it's no big deal
whether they're open or closed you can
awfully this this room was so grotty and
so filthy and so ugly when I arrived
here and you know new paint on the wall
and these curtains these are 20 year old
curtains all you gotta do is clean em
and they look beautiful it makes such a
difference but I mean one generation of
teachers after another lived here and
nobody you don't make the effort anyway
so again I bought all these you know red
satin sheets for every room no I did not
make my bed to show off for you guys
this is how it really looks and just now
this warm pink blanket this is only
because this is these are the last few
days of December but most of the year
this is a tropical country so what the
problem will be that it's too hot sorry
it's a tropical area of China a tropical
special zone so most times the problem
is gonna be that it's too hot not that
it's too cold but at a rate for right
now this is this small room is the room
I am using as my bedroom I could switch
it up but that's totally adequate
there's tons of empty space you could
put in some bookshelves you could put in
anything but I got other rooms to put my
books in I got other rooms to sit at my
writing desk on and so on so behind that
door there's another bedroom that's
basically identical but it's now being
used for absolutely nothing and that was
the only room we didn't repaint I don't
think it's never been used so again
whatever could have I could have more do
you move in there
I could have I could have any number of
my
non-vegan youtube move in so alright oh
right I guess that's not the end of the
tour we have to head down the long
hallway here so by the way you may
notice a lot of the light is tinted blue
a lot of these windows oh yeah so there
you can see some students walking down
the street in between the palm trees
March is an incredibly beautiful city
this doesn't do it justice this view of
my window again when you move into a
place like this in the tropics every
single window this is just sticky tape
nothing special about it you've got to
find the gaps in the mosquito netting
you got to cover them up with tape and
that's what I did there and that makes
all the difference
you know mosquitoes got nothing better
to do people want to kit themselves and
imagine that you can have holes in your
mosquito netting and that that the
mosquitoes will just respect the
principle of the thing they don't the
mosquitoes will be there for five hours
trying to get through the netting and
invention they're through so one of my
regular viewers Emma likes to make fun
of me for this she calls this you know
the laundry room where you risked your
life every time you you do the laundry
and it is that I I'm six foot three and
there's no way I can reach that one dry
so you got to get up on a stool and try
to hang your laundry to dry but this
again so this reflects that we're really
in the tropics these are all blue tinted
windows they have a special layer of
treatment on them to try to you know
cool down the sun's rays as they come in
in the heat of the summer and then you
have another interior window here this
is the window that separates my office
room you can see the same computer there
that separates the the office room from
the the outside wall so even if I'm
making a lot of noise in here you have
two layers of window if I'm
live-streaming with you guys if I'm
talking to somebody on skype with a loud
voice you know it's not really going to
be audible these are all these are all
concrete walls to the outside world so
that's what I'm doing that there instead
of in the room where I have my weight
setup and then we got a utility room and
this is a fabulous water heater
normos thing enough hot water to feed an
army nobody else had bothered to get it
set up and running so again it's so
alien to me
I can't imagine right this is another
one of these windows when I first moved
in there was no barrier to mosquitos
here whatsoever and I think that's why
one person some former tenants put a
piece of cardboard here trying
pathetically to stop the mosquitos
coming in by putting it on this door
that's not what you do you go to the
source you actually put a mosquito
anything on that window and you get the
edges of that you probably can't see at
the top you take the time you get the
sticky tape you actually fill every hole
be a perfectionist do the work because
if you don't do the work the mosquitos
will and of course ultimately mosquitoes
do carry disease in this in this part of
the world but it's very unlikely that
you're going to get malaria or a serious
disease from mosquitoes it's much more
likely that you'll just be deprived of
the opportunity to ever have a decent
night's sleep so yeah I haven't decided
exactly how I'm going to lay out the the
purple padding here on the floor will
we'll deal with that in the days ahead I
guess oh yeah I did I didn't need buy
these throw pillows with the slightly
kitschy Eastern European looking hours
on them but that's cool yeah so you know
best of times worst of times when I
first moved out here I imagined I would
be settling down really long-term and
sometimes when my Chinese employers were
expressing astonishment that I would put
so much effort into redecorating the
place I said to them well you know I'm
38 years old I have a three-year-old
daughter
I need this apartment to be beautiful
enough or good enough for my daughter to
visit me incidentally I do not use I do
not use bottled water here I use tap
water and I boil the tap water and then
I put the tap water in this container
for later use my little contribution to
ecology I suppose I try to
in small ways because I do think the at
least boil this app water here is
suitable for human consumption M when
they asked me why would I commit so much
time and effort to making this apartment
into a beautiful livable place one of my
reasons was well I have a daughter I
want this apartment to be you know
liveable enough that my daughter could
come here and join me
I only had to say that once I don't know
I mean now for various reasons I really
think I mean basically at the end of one
year here my ability to speak Chinese
will be very much improved obviously in
the last six months my ability to speak
Chinese has improved exponentially but
it's very hard to see what role what
positive role the Chinese language will
have in my life by contrast it's very
easy for me to imagine what kind of
positive role YouTube veganism digital
vegan networking will have in my life
it's really easy to see the positive
outcomes that could be attached to that
but it is most likely that after one
year I'll go back to Canada here and you
know if you look at it it certainly
would be possible for me to transition
from you know public sector to private
sector from teaching for the university
to setting up some kind of small
business setting up a vegan restaurant
or what have you here in de Hong and
while that might be tempting in some
ways the reality is financially if you
were going to do something like that you
would be better off doing it in Canada
and that is why every year so many
entrepreneurs from China you know pack
up and move to Canada if you're actually
trying to earn a living and you're not
just on retirements or permanent
vacation it's very clear that you know
you should not be trying to actually
earn your shekels by starting a business
here
well that haven't been said you know the
city of Mancha is a
is a fascinating place incredibly
beautiful place obviously the view of my
window is not gonna do it any justice
but hey I can try and you know in terms
of languages and culture and history and
politics this is one of the most
rewarding places in the world for me to
be I would love to not just be working
on Chinese but to be working on other
languages like at Chang and Jing pol aka
catch in I'd loves me even of course you
know obviously learning Burmese would be
quite easy here mainstream language like
Burmese or you know the local language
daya do well or aka tiny akdong die with
the local dialog which which of course
is fairly closely related to northern
Lao which I have a lot of experience
learning and speaking while those things
would all be fascinating rewarding for
me but I also have to face up the fact
that I already had the experience of
returning to Canada with unique
expertise in languages that nobody in
Western academia values I already have
the experience of becoming expert in you
know pally and to some extent you know
Lotion Cambodia and Southeast Asia and
then you go back to Canada and you find
out what doors is that open for you
absolutely zero so I cannot repeat that
experience now by studying the Hongdae
don't you you should say or Jing PO you
or even minion you or even Burmese you
know I just don't have the luxury at age
38 to repeat the sort of mistakes I made
in my 20s and I don't think I have the
luxury of living here in Mancha for the
the very long term so that's it I've
made an investment in oh we can't quite
see the Golden Temple out the window
here not quite there you go there on the
edge of the mountains when it's clear
here the view of the mountains is also
incredibly beautiful you can see the the
Buddhist temple there just barely if I
lean out the window for you so that's it
I've made an investment in trying to
make a beautiful apartments in a
beautiful part of the world
a really livable place but now I also
have to turn my attention to word
worrying about my own long-term future